# Open Source Steering Committee

The Open Source Steering Committee (OSSC) represents the OpenFn integration
toolkit community of end users and implementers. It reviews and gives feedback
on major roadmap decisions, new designs, specifications, features, and protocol
changes. See the [Governance Overview](README.md) for more information on the
OSSC's place in the OpenFn integration toolkit project and community.

## Formation & motivation

OFG's mission is to scale the world's most promising health and humanitarian
interventions via data integration, interoperability, and automation solutions.

The OSSC was conceived of in 2020 by OFG and will be first convened in 2021
thanks to funding from Digital Square under a "Notice E0, Shelf Readiness"
grant.

OFG recognizes that until 2019, while "platform" usage has grown significantly,
uptake of the open source integration toolkit _outside_ of the platform itself
has been low. They believe that by formalizing the "transfer of ownership" of
this toolkit to **representatives of the community** that benefits from its use
will lead to greater strategic participation and, ultimately, more useful
products.

## Membership

OSSC membership will be determined via a public application process. The
application requirements will focus on relevant experience, contributions to the
suite ecosystem, and availability to provide technical direction to the suite.

Members will be elected by a 2/3rds (rounded up) majority of the current OSSC
and serve for a term of 12 months, unless they resign or are removed.

The OSSC must have at least three members, but there is no fixed size. The
expected target is between 6 and 12, from a minimum of 3 separate organizations,
to ensure long-term sustainability, adequate coverage of important areas of
expertise, and ability to make decisions efficiently.

There is no specific set of requirements or qualifications for OSSC membership
beyond these rules.

The OSSC may add additional members by a regular decision at a duly called
meeting (see below). An OSSC member may be removed by voluntary resignation, or
by a 2/3rds majority (rounded up).

OSSC members are expected to regularly participate in OSSC activities. Members
who have not consistently taken meaningful actions as OSSC members in the past 3
months will be considered for removal. Examples of meaningful actions are
participating regularly in calls, reviewing code, committing code, providing
technical mentorship, leading working groups, etc.

No more than 1/3 of the OSSC members may be affiliated with the same
organization. If removal or resignation of an OSSC member, or a change of
employment by an OSSC member, creates a situation where more than 1/2 of OSSC
membership belong to the same organization, the situation must be immediately
remedied by the resignation or removal of one or more OSSC members affiliated
with the over-represented organization(s).

Changes to OSSC membership should be posted in the agenda, and may be suggested
as any other agenda item.

The current OSSC members are listed at: `TBD`.

## Meetings

The OSSC will meet regularly (generally every month). The meeting will be run by
a facilitator chosen by the OSSC and each meeting will be conducted and
published to a publicly accessible platform (e.g., YouTube). Meeting frequency,
times, agenda, and notes will also be published to a publicly accessible
platform (e.g., the forum, Google Docs).

The OSSC will default to working in public, but sensitive topics (e.g.,
pre-disclosure security problems, confidential pre-agreement discussions with
third parties, personal conflicts among personnel) should only be discussed on
private channels.

Any community member or contributor can ask that a matter be considered at a
OSSC meeting by writing a forum post with the `OSSC` tag. It is the meeting
facilitator's responsibility to collect these items together and consider them
for addition to the agenda or add them to a list of topics for future
consideration.

The facilitator must share the meeting agenda on the forum at least three days
prior to the meeting.

The OSSC may invite non-members to participate in a non-voting capacity. These
invitees will be listed on the agenda.

Meeting minutes will be kept and shared publicly.

## Decision making

The OSSC follows a consensus-seeking decision-making model. When an agenda item
has appeared to reach a consensus, the facilitator will ask "Does anyone
object?" as a final call for dissent from the consensus.

If an agenda item cannot reach a consensus, an OSSC member can call for either a
closing vote or a vote to table the issue to the next meeting. The call for a
vote must be approved by a majority of the OSSC or else the discussion will
continue. If all members of the OSSC are not present during the meeting for
contentious issues, the final vote should happen asynchronously (e.g., via
email). Simple majority wins.

## Attribution

This a derivative work of the
[ODK Tab Governance](https://github.com/getodk/governance/blob/master/TAB-GOVERNANCE.md),
which is itself derivative of
[Node.js Project Governance](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nodejs/nodejs.org/0dd684cf21d278ba8aa178db0a20ebc6d587c58e/locale/en/about/governance.md).
This work is licensed under the [MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
license with copyright held by Node.js Website WG contributors.
