# Steering Committee 

The Technical Advisory Board (TAB) represents the ODK community of end users and
implementers. It reviews and gives feedback on major roadmap decisions, new
designs, specfications, features, and protocol changes. See the
[Governance Overview](README.md) for more information on the TAB's place in the
ODK project and community.

## Membership

TAB membership will be determined via a public application process. The
application requirements will focus on relevant experience, contributions to the
suite ecosystem, and availability to provide technical direction to the suite.

Members will be elected by a 2/3rds (rounded up) majority of the current TAB and
serve for a term of 2 years, unless they resign or are removed.

The TAB must have at least three members, but there is no fixed size. The
expected target is between 6 and 12, from a minimum of 3 separate organizations,
to ensure long-term sustainability, adequate coverage of important areas of
expertise, and ability to make decisions efficiently.

There is no specific set of requirements or qualifications for TAB membership
beyond these rules.

The TAB may add additional members by a regular decision at a duly called
meeting (see below). A TAB member may be removed by voluntary resignation, or by
a 2/3rds majority (rounded up).

TAB members are expected to regularly participate in TAB activities. Members who
have not consistently taken meaningful actions as TAB members in the past 3
months will be considered for removal. Examples of meaningful actions are
participating regularly in calls, reviewing code, committing code, providing
technical mentorship, leading working groups, etc.

No more than 1/3 of the TAB members may be affiliated with the same
organization. If removal or resignation of a TAB member, or a change of
employment by a TAB member, creates a situation where more than 1/2 of TAB
membership belong to the same organization, the situation must be immediately
remedied by the resignation or removal of one or more TAB members affiliated
with the over-represented organization(s).

Changes to TAB membership should be posted in the agenda, and may be suggested
as any other agenda item.

The current TAB members are listed at https://getodk.org/community/governance/.

## Meetings

The TAB will meet regularly (generally every two weeks). The meeting will be run
by a facilitator chosen by the TAB and each meeting will be conducted and
published to a publicly accessible platform (e.g., YouTube). Meeting frequency,
times, agenda, and notes will also be published to a publicly accessible
platform (e.g., the forum, Google Docs).

The TAB will default to working in public, but sensitive topics (e.g.,
pre-disclosure security problems, confidential pre-agreement discussions with
third parties, personal conflicts among personnel) should only be discussed on
private channels.

Any community member or contributor can ask that a matter be considered at a TAB
meeting by writing a forum post with the `TAB` tag. It is the meeting
facilitator's responsibility to collect these items together and consider them
for addition to the agenda or add them to a list of topics for future
consideration.

The facilitator must share the meeting agenda on the forum at least three days
prior to the meeting.

The TAB may invite non-members to participate in a non-voting capacity. These
invitees will be listed on the agenda.

Meeting minutes will be kept and shared publicly.

## Decision making

The TAB follows a consensus-seeking decision-making model. When an agenda item
has appeared to reach a consensus, the facilitator will ask "Does anyone
object?" as a final call for dissent from the consensus.

If an agenda item cannot reach a consensus, a TAB member can call for either a
closing vote or a vote to table the issue to the next meeting. The call for a
vote must be approved by a majority of the TAB or else the discussion will
continue. If all members of the TAB are not present during the meeting for
contentious issues, the final vote should happen asynchronously (e.g., via
email). Simple majority wins.

## Attribution

This a derivative work of the
[ODK Tab Governance](https://github.com/getodk/governance/blob/master/TAB-GOVERNANCE.md),
which is itself derivative of
[Node.js Project Governance](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nodejs/nodejs.org/0dd684cf21d278ba8aa178db0a20ebc6d587c58e/locale/en/about/governance.md).
This work is licensed under the [MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
license with copyright held by Node.js Website WG contributors.
