# OpenFn OSSC Meeting 1

### Date

Friday, April 23rd, 2021

### Attendees

1. Teddy Berihun (USAID)
2. Aleksa Krolls (OpenFn)
3. Jake Watson (DIAL)
4. Jennifer Shivers (OpenHIE)
5. Andrea King (Dimagi)
6. Robert MacTavish (UNICEF)
7. Taylor Downs (OpenFn)

### Agenda

1. Introduction (10 min)
2. OFG overview (5 min)
3. Lightning Demos (15 min)
   1. platform
   2. microservice
4. Implementation Roadmap (10 min)
5. Product Roadmap (10 min)
6. Next steps (10 min)

### Notes

1.  The goals of the first meeting were established and reviewed. Primarily,
    they were to

    1. for OSSC members to be comfortable speaking to one another; be able to
       hear one another
    2. for OSSC members to understand how OpenFn works at the project-level,
       including both OFG and the various products
    3. For OSSC members to understand the platform and understand the
       integration toolkit, focusing on disambiguating the two so that attention
       can better be focused just on the integration toolkit

2.  The secondary goals of the meeting were to

    1. Identify problems (that we’re well positioned to solve with the toolkit)
    2. Identify the owners of those problems (individual organizations, people)
    3. Identify the requirements of those problem owners

3.  The expectations of the OSSC members were detailed and included

    1. To meet once a month for 60 minutes
    2. To review our product roadmaps and implementation plans
    3. To think through their own networks and project pipelines to identify
       upcoming implementation opportunities and requirements driven by those
       real-world implementations 10. Critical engagement, ad hoc follow-up

4.  The committee reviewed the structure of OFG (the primary funder and
    developer of the integration toolkit) and discussed their mission, their
    areas of expertise, and what drives their economic engine.

    1.  OFG aims to build a third sector that operates much more efficiently,
        given limited resources. While they’re not focused exclusively on
        health, humanitarian, and child-protection interventions, we believe a
        focus on those interventions will lead to the greatest impact.
    2.  OFG is a small team of experts that work, behind the scenes, on some of
        the most promising health and humanitarian interventions in the
        world—helping them achieve scale via data integration.
    3.  OFG aims to keep the size of their company at around a dozen individuals
        and to balance SaaS with sleeves-up consulting work to (a) ensure close
        alignment to the real value we deliver to customers, (b) build the
        capacity of larger institutions (than ourselves) to benefit from
        integration, and (c) enable continued autonomy in our decision making.
    4.  A large portion of OFG’s revenue comes from enabling connections between
        mobile data collection systems (CommCare, ODK, Kobo, Ona, SurveyCTO,
        Magpi, etc., etc.) and MIS systems (DHIS2, Salesforce, custom databases
        or MISs). This should be noted as it’s indicative of where the sector
        has seen value, historically.

5.  The committee reviewed the OpenFn “platform” (the iPaaS offering) and
    “microservice” (the flagship product in the open-source integration
    toolkit).

    1. The platform can be deployed locally or run on the cloud, but it is
       open-core (not end-to-end open-source) and requires a license to use.
    2. Microservice (and everything else in the integration toolkit) are fully
       FOSS.
    3. The platform has a robust web UI and numerous enterprise-grade features
       designed at making integration projects easier to manage for large
       organizations, operating at scale over many years.
    4. The web UI for microservice is currently just a technical debugging and
       resource management dashboard, and lacks job management interfaces. It is
       meant to run “headlessly”.
    5. Integration projects built on the platform can be exported, at the click
       of a button, to run as a microservice. Users are prompted to download,
       extract and run the contents of a “microservice.zip” file which is
       automatically prepared from the project configuration on the platform.

6.  The committee discussed strategic questions about the sustainability of the
    integration toolkit.

    1. It was determined that funding for the integration toolkit will likely
       come from a combination of (a) Direct investment from OFG; (b)
       project-specific implementation contracts that lead to toolkit
       enhancements, and (c) grant funding.

7.  As alignment around strategy and the deepening of shared product _and_
    committee member understanding was considered higher-priority for the group
    call, the committee opted to shift individual roadmap items to follow-ups.

8.  The committee discussed the requirements of governments seeking integration
    solutions.

    1. It was noted that while many governments need open-source variants to be
       available, they sometimes prefer to implement unlimited-use licensed
       products and contract for technical assistance and training.
    2. It was noted that capacity is often limited for local implementation and
       support of technical solutions and that further investment needs to be
       made in documentation around the integration toolkit.

9.  The meeting closed with an agreement to take implementation roadmap
    questions offline (before the next call) and to meet next at the end of May.

### Outputs

1. The next meeting will take place before May 31st, 2021.
2. The slides for the meeting, including implementation and product roadmaps can
   be found
   [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1DfcjS-xBVZv_gCuaMNgl09djnxJSnHqeoKoj1xDkIrQ/edit#slide=id.gd324ee84de_1_415).
3. The draft 2021 strategy (yet to be finalized) for the integration toolkit can
   be found
   [here](https://github.com/OpenFn/governance/blob/main/strategy/2021.md).
