# OpenFn OSSC Meeting 3

### Date

Wednesday, June 30th, 2021

### Attendees

1. Teddy Berihun (USAID)
2. Jennifer Shivers (OpenHIE)
3. Andrea King (Dimagi)
4. Robert MacTavish (UNICEF)
5. Taylor Downs (OpenFn)

### Agenda

1. Recap & Setting the table (5 min)
2. Recruitment for the OSSC (10 min)
3. Implementation Roadmap (20 min)
4. Product Roadmap (20 min)
5. Next steps (5 min)

### Notes

1. Robert discussed the Responsible Data for Children project; important for the
   group to understand how the integration toolkit can help out there; important
   to know which other tools represented here might be of use in implementing
   the project. Robert to share notes.

2. Need to push on recruitment; two months left in this current term and we need
   to identify the next crop of OSSC members; there's likely room for two
   different types of steering committees, one related to strategy/open-source
   sustainability and the other related to product roadmap.

3. Re: roadmap people, we need more actual implementers; Consider Sean and
   Benjamin from UNICEF, Robert to reach out; Need folks with actual integration
   requirements that can drive out the most important features of the toolkit.

4. John Payne at OCL could be a good partner.

5. Haftamu Kebede at Mekelle University; developing integration/interop
   curriculum with OFG, could be great.

6. Consider other academic partners for long-term development of an implementer
   community.

7. It's important to specify and separate the committees; one could be focused
   on funding/sustainability and the other on product development. Very
   different people in different conversations there.

8. Reconnect with Jaimie, OHIE is part of a "community of community managers"
   with good thoughts on developing thriving contributor communities; Consider
   Jen from OpenMRS.

9. We're seeing more interest in features that are part of platform than in
   those in microservice, how should this shape the product roadmap for
   microservice? (Big open question!)

10. Considering what open source the plaform would look like; how to make it
    sustainable but still distribute as FOSS.

11. Re: the future of microservice, Teddy/Ethiopia MoH team still see a critical
    need for the microservice deployment pathway... it's got a super small
    resource footprint and could run as a background service driving
    interoperability servers with low or intermittent connectivity.

12. How microservice evolves will likely depend heavily on if or how much of the
    proprietary application is made open source. Engine and core, on the other
    hand, will be pushed forward aggressively because they're always open-source
    and will remain critical for _both_ the platform deployment pathway _and_
    the microservice deployment pathway.