# OpenFn OSSC Meeting 2

### Date

Friday, May 28th, 2021

### Attendees

1. Teddy Berihun (USAID)
2. Aleksa Krolls (OpenFn)
3. Jennifer Shivers (OpenHIE)
4. Andrea King (Dimagi)
5. Robert MacTavish (UNICEF)
6. Taylor Downs (OpenFn)
7. Jake Watson (DIAL) joined for a post-meeting discussion which is continued in
   the notes below after point 20

### Agenda

1. Recap & Setting the table (5 min)
2. Lightning Demos (10 min)
   1. Library
   2. Instant OpenHIE
3. Implementation Roadmap (10 min)
4. Product Roadmap (10 min)
5. Big Challenges (15 min)
6. Next steps (10 min)

### Notes

1. Intros and recapping the agenda, discussing the notes from last time. Taylor
   pointing out the the biggest questions we need to answer are:
   1. How do we get the right people on the OSSC? (4 months left with this
      current cohort, many might stick around but we need to ensure that real
      open-source users are represented.)
   2. What upcoming implementations will benefit from having open source
      integration tools?
   3. What features do we need to build into the open source integration toolkit
      to help those implementations succeed?
   4. How do we pay for the work that’s needed to be done, re: point “1.c”?
2. Jennifer suggests that a connection with OCL
   ([https://github.com/OpenConceptLab](https://github.com/OpenConceptLab))
   would be helpful in re: creating a more vibrant community of end-users and
   contributors.
3. Taylor demonstrates the job library:
   [https://docs.openfn.org/library/](https://docs.openfn.org/library/)<span style="text-decoration:underline;">
   </span>
4. Teddy suggests that scoring should be in rough buckets and that filtering by
   those buckets should be part of the interface.
5. Aleksa suggests that users should be able to tag jobs by their _source_, so
   even if a job uses the “dhis2” adaptor to load data to dhis2, it might be
   useful to know that the job expects source data to _come from_ CommCare.
6. Robert wants to know if scoring might deter organizations from sharing.
7. Teddy thinks the job library is an important way to bring users together and
   foster a bit of community.
8. Jan explains Instant OpenHIE:
   [https://openhie.github.io/instant/](https://openhie.github.io/instant/)
9. Taylor walks through the OpenFn Instant OpenHIE package demo:
   [https://github.com/openFn/instant-demo](https://github.com/openFn/instant-demo)
10. Andrea asks about envisioned user journey and Instant OpenHIE setup 5. From
    Taylor: when you deploy Instant OpenHIE you initialize the
    “OpenFn/microservice” package with a project.yaml 6. From Taylor: as for the
    user journey, we’re still envisioning that most users will configure
    projects via the platform, and then click the “deploy as microservice” or
    “export project.yaml” buttons on the platform to run those projects as
    microservices inside Instant OpenHIE.
11. Jennifer requests feedback on Instant OpenHIE docs 7. From Taylor: super
    clear, fast docs on how to get up on running, but didn’t understand the big
    picture.
12. Teddy asking for disambiguation around OpenHIM and OpenFn 8. From Taylor: in
    short, interoperability often involves multiple layers… one is the layer
    that validates and authorizes and logs communication between party A and
    party B. The _other_ is sometimes called a “workflow engine” and it’s
    responsible for actually reading that communication, modifying payloads,
    sending new messages, etc., rather than simply passing them from a sender to
    a recipient. While OpenFn might be employed in both of these roles, we see
    microservice, in its current incarnation, as being best suited to playing
    the “workflow engine” role… still using a channel in OpenHIM, but replacing
    the mediator development process. 9. From Taylor: so for your Ethiopia
    example, we might see CommCare send messages to a microservice endpoint in
    Instant OpenHIE, which transforms those payloads or creates new payloads
    before sending them to a FHIR channel in OpenHIM.
13. Andrea: We see a lot of value in this for where there are not direct,
    out-of-the-box integrations built in. CommCare has out-of-box integrations
    for HAPI FHIR and DHIS2, but for other systems like Salesforce, we see this
    a lot.
14. Taylor: Stresses that this workflow engine step is not required if direct
    communication between system A and system B has already been enabled via
    built-in integrations, but OpenFn is seeking to add value in the cases where
    it’s not yet been developed.
15. Shift to discuss upcoming integration needs.
16. Jennfier suggests that lab integration is becoming increasingly high
    priority, offers to connect with Jan Flowers and Rita Sembajwe... the
    contacts for the laboratory systems OHIE community and shares notes from a
    recent call discussing challenges in integration:
    [https://wiki.ohie.org/display/resources/2021-05-25+Lab+Information+System+Call](https://wiki.ohie.org/display/resources/2021-05-25+Lab+Information+System+Call)
17. Taylor brings up [https://divoc.egov.org.in/](https://divoc.egov.org.in/)
    and the recent dhis2 work… there’s high demand for DHIS2/DIVOC integration
    around vaccine certification.
18. Teddy acknowledges Ethiopia’s interest in that particular connection.
19. Individual follow ups are scheduled where collaboration will be required.
    Notes to continue after Taylor/Jake meet.
20. Jake Watson joins (wasn’t able to attend previous call) to recap call with
    Taylor and cover the same agenda.
21. Jake supports the development of the job library—stressing that re-usability
    is what saves time/money/implementation work.
22. Jake suggests that DIAL’s OSC might be able to help provide an assessment of
    the viability of various strategies for strengthening the open source
    integration toolkit, as well as assessing the relative merits of building
    out the microservice user-interface vis-a-vis open sourcing the existing
    platform.

### Outputs

1. The next meeting will take place before June 31st, 2021.
2. Active Discussions to continue with Ethiopia/USAID/JSI around microservice
   deployments in 2021.
3. OSSC members to consider how to get the right people into this group—if
   anyone is interested in joining the OSSC please email
   [ossc@openfn.org](mailto:ossc@openfn.org) .
