# OpenFn OSSC Meeting 4

### Date

Thursday, August 26th, 2021

### Attendees

1. Aleksa Krolls (OpenFn)
2. Andrea King (Dimagi)
3. Robert MacTavish (UNICEF)
4. Taylor Downs (OpenFn)
5. Mary Rocheleau (Dimagi)
6. Jennifer Shivers (OpenHIE)

### Agenda

1. Recap & Setting the table (5 min)
2. Recruitment for the OSSC (5 min)
3. Implementation Roadmap (20 min)
4. Product Roadmap (20 min)
5. Next steps (5 min)

### Notes

### Discussion on Standards/FHIR

1. Dimagi are not seeing a lot of bottom-up demand; mostly investing in tools
   and conversations to support standards in order to be thought leaders—to help
   push the community in the right direction.

2. They are considering more "template" CommCare apps that leverage some of
   these standards to encourage implementers Mentioned OpenMRS concept library
   as an example for how another tool is encouraging implementation best
   practices w/in their community.

3. Primero and partners are also considering developing a “child protection”
   version of data standards; trying to lean on existing standards like FHIR but
   still early in conversation, not sure what this would look like. Might use
   Primero software configuration to help define this first set of standards.

4. Standards would be helpful; partners are spending hours trying to arrive at a
   common definition for what is a "referral". Standards or pointing to past
   implementations (i.e., an OpenFn integration b/t 2 partner systems) can help
   to fast-track these conversations and get everyone speaking the same
   language.

5. OpenFn to consider expanding job library to include "project library" which
   contains multiple jobs, linked as templates that implement certain standards.

### Product Roadmap

1. OpenFn is at a fork in the road. Taylor spoke with you last time (2 months
   ago) about the question of the feature-sets and overlap between
   `microservice` and `platform`. As we’re sharing `microservice` with potential
   implementation partners and better understanding their requirements, folks
   are asking for features that already exist in the iPaaS (in `platform`). Risk
   of folks investing in rebuilding the wheel—as Taylor mentioned last time,
   we’re not interested in withholding IP from the community and forcing them to
   rebuild it, but if we decide to make this stuff available as open source we
   need to do so sustainably. Working with DIAL to model our sustainability in a
   fully-open-source model.

2. Dimagi Has been investing a lot this year in enhancing its open source tools
   and documentation. This investment was largely driven by feedback from BD
   team sharing that opps were hurting because CommCare’s open-source platform
   wasn’t perceived as "really" open-source or very user-friendly for
   open-source deployment. Investment has therefore been critical for securing
   these opps and ensuring success of large-scale national implementations where
   open-source is a central requirement.

### OpenHIE Community Meeting

1. Sounds like a potential good meeting topic could be “Models for sustaining
   open source software”. JS on the technical showcase: It would be great if
   OpenFn could showcase and explain use cases you’ve come across (who, what,
   where, why)... but then demo how these use cases might actually be achieved.

2. Show the Instant OpenHIE `microservice` module/demo: first on `platform` and
   then show the `microservice` export and setup on `microservice`.
